README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Friedrich von Never <friedrich@fornever.me>

SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only
-->

Omea
====
Omea is the integrated information environment, developed in JetBrains during 2003–2008, and [eventually open-sourced][jetbrains.omea.open-source]. Read more on [the official site][jetbrains.omea]. Originally, it was produced in two flavors: Omea Reader and Omea Pro, the latter having all the features of the former and more. The open-source version is based on Omea Pro.

Documentation
-------------
- [Contributor Guide][docs.contributing]

Project Overview
----------------
Welcome to Omea Pro… a uniquely different and productive way to tame
information overload and work with all that stuff on your computer! What
exactly *is* Omea Pro? It's actually several things rolled into one.

**It's a communications center:**

Omea Pro is a unique "Personal Communications Environment". It does
away with the need for separate programs to handle different kinds of
communications such as e-mail, instant messages, newsgroups, and RSS and
Atom feeds, enabling you to work with all these different types in one
unified interface. But there's much more to Omea Pro than just acting
as a central communications depot.

**It's an information organizer:**

Omea Pro is also part information organizer… a "Personal Information
Environment", if you will. With Omea Pro you can organize the
information resources stored on your computer in ways that are
meaningful to *you*, rather than to your computer's operating system or
some application program. You can organize information in-flows
according to your daily activities, current projects, people you connect
with, etc. You can create tasks from incoming items and attach to them
all relevant information of any kind, stored anywhere on your computer
or available on the Web.

If some information is relevant to more than one thing, you can link to
it from multiple contexts and Omea Pro will find it when you work in any
of them. Say you have e-mails and documents from your boss that relate
to a project you are responsible for, and also to your supervision of
employees. You can create separate "Categories" for your Project and
your Employee Supervision activities, and also a custom "View" that
shows all correspondence with your boss. You can create custom
"Workspaces" that let you deal with any one of these as a separate
context where you'll be able to quickly access the relevant resources.
But there's more yet to Omea Pro.

**It's a search engine:**

No matter how well you organize your information, chances are in a few
weeks or months you won't remember exactly what it is or how to locate
it in your organization scheme. That's why Omea Pro is also part search
engine. Not for the Internet, but for your PC. Just as an Internet
search engine does for content on the Web, so Omea Pro indexes and
cross-links the content of your computer. That enables you to find
everything on your machine that relates to your search query regardless
of when you received it, where it's stored, or what kind of resource it
is… a message of some kind, a Web page, a newsgroup article, a feed
posting, or a file (stored locally or attached to a message). And
searches are lightning fast… no more wasted time while Windows
tediously searches through every file in every folder.

**It's a web research tool:**

Many activities today require people to collect, organize and share
online information from many different resources — emails, feeds, news
articles, files, websites…

Using Omea Pro's Clippings (excerpts of text for later reference), you
can "cut" and save the pieces of information easily both from within
Omea Pro and such web browsers as Internet Explorer©, Firefox©, and
Mozilla©. Additionally, you can create bookmarks of web pages both in
Omea Pro and web browsers.

After your collection of Clippings and web pages is ready or in the
process of its creation, you can apply multiple Omea's organizational
features to them — associate your Clippings and web bookmarks with one
or several Categories, write notes on why you consider these items
useful, and so on. And also share your Clippings with other Omea Pro
users instantly.

**It's all this and more…**

So far we haven't touched on any of the many convenience and
productivity features found in Omea Pro… such as free-form text
annotations, custom cross-linking of resources, automatic, intelligent
"see also" links to potentially relevant resources, shortcuts to
resources you need most often, and more. Everything fits together to
deliver a smart, easy to learn, easy to use solution for processing and
working with electronic information.

License
-------
The project is distributed under the terms of [the GPL v2 license][docs.license]
(unless a particular file states otherwise).

The license indication in the project's sources is compliant with the [REUSE specification v3.2][reuse.spec].

Third-Party Libraries
---------------------
The project uses the following third-party libraries:
- [MAPIStubLibrary][libs.mapi-stub-library]
  - **Copyright**: 2018 Microsoft
  - **License:** MIT License

[docs.contributing]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[docs.license]: LICENSES/GPL-2.0-only.txt
[jetbrains.omea.open-source]: https://web.archive.org/web/20080704062010/http://www.jetbrains.net/confluence/display/OMEA/this+link
[jetbrains.omea]: https://www.jetbrains.com/omea/
[libs.mapi-stub-library]: https://github.com/microsoft/MAPIStubLibrary
[reuse.spec]: https://reuse.software/spec-3.2/

Commit message:

Docs: mention the blog post

README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Friedrich von Never <friedrich@fornever.me>

SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only
-->

Omea
====
Omea is the integrated information environment, developed in JetBrains during 2003–2008, and [eventually open-sourced][jetbrains.omea.open-source]. Read more on [the official site][jetbrains.omea]. Originally, it was produced in two flavors: Omea Reader and Omea Pro, the latter having all the features of the former and more. The open-source version is based on Omea Pro.

Read more on the project history and restoration [in the blog post][blog.restoration].

Documentation
-------------
- [Contributor Guide][docs.contributing]

Project Overview
----------------
Welcome to Omea Pro… a uniquely different and productive way to tame
information overload and work with all that stuff on your computer! What
exactly *is* Omea Pro? It's actually several things rolled into one.

**It's a communications center:**

Omea Pro is a unique "Personal Communications Environment". It does
away with the need for separate programs to handle different kinds of
communications such as e-mail, instant messages, newsgroups, and RSS and
Atom feeds, enabling you to work with all these different types in one
unified interface. But there's much more to Omea Pro than just acting
as a central communications depot.

**It's an information organizer:**

Omea Pro is also part information organizer… a "Personal Information
Environment", if you will. With Omea Pro you can organize the
information resources stored on your computer in ways that are
meaningful to *you*, rather than to your computer's operating system or
some application program. You can organize information in-flows
according to your daily activities, current projects, people you connect
with, etc. You can create tasks from incoming items and attach to them
all relevant information of any kind, stored anywhere on your computer
or available on the Web.

If some information is relevant to more than one thing, you can link to
it from multiple contexts and Omea Pro will find it when you work in any
of them. Say you have e-mails and documents from your boss that relate
to a project you are responsible for, and also to your supervision of
employees. You can create separate "Categories" for your Project and
your Employee Supervision activities, and also a custom "View" that
shows all correspondence with your boss. You can create custom
"Workspaces" that let you deal with any one of these as a separate
context where you'll be able to quickly access the relevant resources.
But there's more yet to Omea Pro.

**It's a search engine:**

No matter how well you organize your information, chances are in a few
weeks or months you won't remember exactly what it is or how to locate
it in your organization scheme. That's why Omea Pro is also part search
engine. Not for the Internet, but for your PC. Just as an Internet
search engine does for content on the Web, so Omea Pro indexes and
cross-links the content of your computer. That enables you to find
everything on your machine that relates to your search query regardless
of when you received it, where it's stored, or what kind of resource it
is… a message of some kind, a Web page, a newsgroup article, a feed
posting, or a file (stored locally or attached to a message). And
searches are lightning fast… no more wasted time while Windows
tediously searches through every file in every folder.

**It's a web research tool:**

Many activities today require people to collect, organize and share
online information from many different resources — emails, feeds, news
articles, files, websites…

Using Omea Pro's Clippings (excerpts of text for later reference), you
can "cut" and save the pieces of information easily both from within
Omea Pro and such web browsers as Internet Explorer©, Firefox©, and
Mozilla©. Additionally, you can create bookmarks of web pages both in
Omea Pro and web browsers.

After your collection of Clippings and web pages is ready or in the
process of its creation, you can apply multiple Omea's organizational
features to them — associate your Clippings and web bookmarks with one
or several Categories, write notes on why you consider these items
useful, and so on. And also share your Clippings with other Omea Pro
users instantly.

**It's all this and more…**

So far we haven't touched on any of the many convenience and
productivity features found in Omea Pro… such as free-form text
annotations, custom cross-linking of resources, automatic, intelligent
"see also" links to potentially relevant resources, shortcuts to
resources you need most often, and more. Everything fits together to
deliver a smart, easy to learn, easy to use solution for processing and
working with electronic information.

License
-------
The project is distributed under the terms of [the GPL v2 license][docs.license]
(unless a particular file states otherwise).

The license indication in the project's sources is compliant with the [REUSE specification v3.2][reuse.spec].

Third-Party Libraries
---------------------
The project uses the following third-party libraries:
- [MAPIStubLibrary][libs.mapi-stub-library]
  - **Copyright**: 2018 Microsoft
  - **License:** MIT License

[blog.restoration]: https://fornever.me/en/posts/2024-07-16.omea-restoration.html
[docs.contributing]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[docs.license]: LICENSES/GPL-2.0-only.txt
[jetbrains.omea.open-source]: https://web.archive.org/web/20080704062010/http://www.jetbrains.net/confluence/display/OMEA/this+link
[jetbrains.omea]: https://www.jetbrains.com/omea/
[libs.mapi-stub-library]: https://github.com/microsoft/MAPIStubLibrary
[reuse.spec]: https://reuse.software/spec-3.2/
